            _______________________
           /\                      \
           \_|         Arx         |
             |      Libertatis     |
             |   __________________|__
              \_/____________________/


Cross-platform port of Arx Fatalis

Arx Libertatisis based on the publicly released Arx Fatalis source code
available at http://www.arkane-studios.com/uk/arx_downloads.php.
GPLv3 - read ARX_PUBLIC_LICENSE.txt

## Contact

Website: http://arx-libertatis.org

Bug Tracker: https://bugs.arx-libertatis.org/

IRC: \#arxfatalis on irc.freenode.net

Wiki: http://wiki.arx-libertatis.org/

Reddit: http://www.reddit.com/r/ArxFatalis/

## Using these binaries

The simplest way to use these binaries is to cd to this directory in a terminal,
then install the game data using one of the install scripts:

    $ ./install-... <path-to-source-data>

and the running the game using the `play` wrapper:

    $ ./play

## Data file, config and savegame locations

You will need to get either the full game or demo data of Arx Fatalis. See
http://wiki.arx-libertatis.org/Getting_the_game_data

Where arx will look for data files and write config and save files depends on
the operating system and environment - the wiki has a page detailing the full
data directory detection algorithm:
http://wiki.arx-libertatis.org/Data_directories

To print all directories considered by arx, run

    $ ./arx --list-dirs

If you don't have a system-wide installation of the Arx Fatalis data files, you
can just run arx from the directory containing the .pak files:

    $ ./arx

Arx Libertatis will then put the config and save files in the same directory. If
you have a system-wide installation, but still want to run from the current
directory, use the `--no-data-dir --user-dir=. --config-dir=.` command-line
options. This is what the `play` script does.

For other systems like **Linux**, the data files can be in
`/usr/local/share/games/arx` and `/usr/share/games/arx` as well as other
locations depending on your Linux distribution. Config files are normally
located in `~/.config/arx` while save files are stored in `~/.local/share/arx`.

## Run

Run from the directory containing the .pak files (or from anywhere in case of a
system-wide installation):

    $ ./arx

The game will try to automatically rename all used files in the user directory
(but not the data directory) to lowercase on the first run if possible.
System-wide installations always need to manually rename the files to lowercase
- you can use the install-copy script.

You can close it with `Alt + F4` or `killall arx`

## Tools

* `./arxunpak <pakfile> [<pakfile>...]`
  Extracts the .pak files containing the game assets.

* `./arxsavetool <command> <savefile> [<options>...]` - commands are:
  * `extract <savefile>`
    Extract the contents of the given savefile to the current directly.
  * `add <savefile> [<files>...]`
    Add files to a savefile, create it if needed.
  * `fix <savefile>`
    Fix savegame issues created by previous builds of Arx Libertatis
  * `view <savefile> <ident>` - Print savegame information.

## Scripts

The `scripts` directory contains shell scripts that allow to extract/install the
game data under Linux without Wine from the CD, demo, GOG.com installer or any
fully patched Arx Fatalis install respectively. Also see
http://wiki.arx-libertatis.org/Installing_the_game_data_under_Linux

* `./install-cd path/to/cd path/to/ArxFatalis_1.21_MULTILANG.exe [output_dir]`
  requires cabextract (http://www.cabextract.org.uk/)
  and innoextract (http://innoextract.constexpr.org/)
  `ArxFatalis_1.21_MULTILANG.exe` can be downloaded from
  http://www.arkane-studios.com/uk/arx_downloads.php

* `./install-demo path/to/arx_demo_english.zip [output_dir]`
  requires unzip (http://www.info-zip.org/)
  and cabextract (http://www.cabextract.org.uk/)

* `./install-gog path/to/setup_arx_fatalis.exe [output_dir]`
  requires innoextract (http://innoextract.constexpr.org/)
  `setup_arx_fatalis.exe` can be downloaded from your GOG.com account after
  buying Arx Fatalis

* `./install-copy path/to/ArxFatalis/ [output_dir]`
  `path/to/ArxFatalis/` should point to a fully pached (1.21) Arx Fatalis
  installation, such as the one from Steam
